# Middleware, Querying Database and Migrations

In this project, you will build API for a blog and use basic custom middleware with organized routing and model format.


### Minimum Viable Product

- Wire the application together completing `api/server.js` and `index.js`.
- Make sure you understand how Knex works and how it helps us build schema.
- There are endpoints in `users-router.js` to retrieve the list of `posts` by a `user` and to store a new `post` for a `user`.

#### Custom Middleware Requirements

- `validateUserId()`

  - this middleware will be used for all user endpoints that include an `id` parameter in the url (ex: `/api/users/:id` and it should check the database to make sure there is a user with that id.
  - if the `id` parameter is valid, store the user object as `req.user` and allow the request to continue
  - if the `id` parameter does not match any user id in the database, respond with status `404` and `{ message: "user not found" }`

- `validateUser()`

  - `validateUser` validates the `body` on a request to create or update a user
  - if the request `body` lacks the required `name` field, respond with status `400` and `{ message: "missing required name field" }`


### Database Persistence Helpers

There are two helper files that you can use to manage the persistence of _users_ and _posts_ data. These files are `api/users/users-model.js` and `api/posts/posts-model.js`. Both files publish the following api:

- `get()`: calling find returns a promise that resolves to an array of all the resources contained in the database.
- `getById()`: takes an `id` as the argument and returns a promise that resolves to the resource with that id if found.
- `insert()`: calling insert passing it a resource object will add it to the database and return the new resource.
- `update()`: accepts two arguments, the first is the `id` of the resource to update and the second is an object with the `changes` to apply. On success it returns the updated record.
- `remove()`: the remove method accepts an `id` as it's first parameter and, upon successfully deleting the `resource` from the database, returns the number of records deleted.

The `users-model.js` includes an extra method called `getUserPosts()` that when passed a user's `id`, returns a list of all the `posts` for the `user`.

**All helper methods return a promise.**

#### Database Schemas

The _Database Schemas_ for the `users` and `posts` resources are:

##### Users

| field | data type        | metadata                                              |
| ----- | ---------------- | ----------------------------------------------------- |
| id    | unsigned integer | primary key, auto-increments, generated by database   |
| name  | string           | required, unique                                      |

##### Posts

| field   | data type        | metadata                                            |
| ------- | ---------------- | --------------------------------------------------- |
| id      | unsigned integer | primary key, auto-increments, generated by database |
| text    | text             | required                                            |
| user_id | unsigned integer | required, must be the `id` of an existing user      |

We have provided test data for the resources.

#### Important Notes

- Reset the database by executing `npm run resetdb`.
- Test your work manually using Postman.
- You are welcome to create additional files but **do not move or rename existing files** or folders.
- In your solution, it is essential that you follow best practices and produce clean and professional results.
